Deploying new dispute games with OPCM (#1583)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/operators/chain-operators/tutorials/dispute-games.mdx

---
title: Deploying new dispute games with OPCM
description: Learn how to deploy new dispute games to an OP Stack chain using OPCM
lang: en-US
content_type: tutorial
topic: deploying-dispute-games-opcm
personas:
  - chain-operator
  - protocol-developer
categories:
  - fault proofs
  - smart contracts upgrades
  - OPCM upgrade
  - OPCM contracts
  - dispute game
is_imported_content: 'false'
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Deploying new dispute games with OPCM

> This guide provides instructions on how to deploy new dispute games to an OP Stack chain using the OPCM (OP Contracts Manager). This process is particularly relevant for teams looking to upgrade their chains to support permissionless dispute games.

Reviewer: Lets add an internal link to the opcm reference doc here

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure that:

> *   Your chain is running OP Contracts version 2.0.0 or higher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Your chain is running `op-contracts/v2.0.0` or higher
```

> *   You have access to the chain's `ProxyAdmin`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   You are the owner of the chain's L1 `ProxyAdmin` contract
```

> *   You have the forge toolkit installed for executing calls

Reviewer: Let's add a link to foundry here

## Understanding dispute games

The OP Stack uses two types of dispute games:

*   **Permissioned dispute game**: Limited to specific proposer and challenger addresses
*   **Permissionless dispute game**: Open to anyone to propose or challenge

<Callout type="warning">
  In the Permissioned dispute game (PDG), the challenger role is a protocol-level permission assigned to specific addresses, allowing them to initiate or respond to disputes. This role is distinct from the op-challenger service, which is an off-chain monitoring service responsible for automatically detecting discrepancies and submitting challenges.
  While the op-challenger service typically operates using an address that has been assigned the challenger role, the protocol-level role itself can be independently assigned, regardless of whether the op-challenger service is in use.

>   Refer to the [OP Stack configurability spec](https://specs.optimism.io/protocol/configurability.html) for more details.

Reviewer: Let's use an internal link to the challenger's permissioned role here: https://docs.optimism.io/superchain/privileged-roles#challenger

</Callout>

> Most chains initially deploy with only the permissioned dispute game. This guide explains how to add the permissionless game.

Reviewer: All chains deployed with op-deployer only initially include the permissioned dispute game

# Create call data for addGameType function
# Note: Set delayedWETH to 0x0 to deploy a new one
CALLDATA=$(cast calldata "addGameType((string,address,address,address,uint32,bytes32,uint256,uint256,uint64,uint64,uint256,address,bool)[])" \
"[(\
\"unique_salt_mixer\",\
$SYSTEM_CONFIG,\
$PROXY_ADMIN,\
0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000,\
$CANNON_GAME_TYPE,\
$ABSOLUTE_PRESTATE,\
$MAX_GAME_DEPTH,\
$SPLIT_DEPTH,\
$CLOCK_EXTENSION,\
$MAX_CLOCK_DURATION,\
$INITIAL_BOND,\
$VM,\
false\
)]")

# Execute the transaction
cast send --rpc-url $RPC_URL --private-key $PRIVATE_KEY $OPCM_ADDRESS $CALLDATA
```

4.  Setting the respected game type
    After deploying the permissionless dispute game, you'll need to update the respectedGameType in the OptimismPortal to start using it.
    For detailed instructions on setting the respected game type and migrating your chain from permissioned to permissionless fault proofs, refer to the [Todo: Update this once it goes live- Migrating to permissionless fault proofs guide](https://deploy-preview-1539--docs-optimism.netlify.app/operators/chain-operators/tutorials/migrating-permissionless).

> ## Todo: Update the next steps

Reviewer: Just make sure to update this after the other pr is merged
